Set it up with an automatic timer to make sure the turtle gets the light it needs.
Heat lamps can generally just be clipped to the edge of the tank and angled down.
Install an easily visible thermometer stuck to the side of the tank to make sure the temperature stays consistent.
Clean the rock with untreated water.
Tap water contains chlorine and possibly fluoride which can upset the ph balance of the turtle' s habitat.
De-chlorinated spring water needs to be used for the swimming area and filtered water for your turtle to drink.
Adding a teaspoon of salt per gallon of water will reduce the level of bad bacteria and protect the turtles better from shell and skin diseases.
Spritz the dry areas regularly with a spray bottle, to maintain the moisture in the area.
Aquatic turtles will need a lot of water in the aquarium, and it would make your job a lot easier to get a water filter and pump assembly, to cycle the water out regularly and clean it.
Because turtles eat, drink, and defecate in the tank, it' s very important to keep the water as clean as possible for the health of your turtle.water filters are generally quite quiet and affordable, and they feature a small sump that sucks the water up and filters it through a filter and back into the tank.
You' ll still need to change out the water and clean the tank about every month, but you' ll need to change out the water much more regularly( every 2-3 days) without one.
Amounts will vary depending on the size of the turtle.
It' s important to keep the turtle' s eating and living area clean of waste to make the turtle happy.
If you use a water filter, you only need to change out the water every couple of weeks.
Every couple of months, remove the turtle from the tank and place it into a temperature controlled area for a while while you wash out the tank thoroughly with spring water.
You don' t usually need to use soap to wash down the turtle' s tank.
Replace the water, the light, other supplies, and the thermometer, and return the turtle to the freshly cleaned habitat.
There is shell conditioner that you can buy at the pet store, which can be applied with a toothbrush to the back of the shell.
If you take your pet out of the tank to play, be sure the room is at relatively the same temperature as the tank.
Keeping the water in the tanks fresh and removing waste promptly should also help keep bacteria under control in the habitat.
