For example, maybe you always dreamed of getting married in your hometown.
You feel, therefore, your hometown is a more sentimental choice for you and you should therefore have your way.
What would you say to a friend having this disagreement?
After you' ve stated your case, allow your partner to talk.
Make sure your partner feels heard and understood before you offer a solution.it can help to repeat what your partner says to make sure you understand.
One of you may want to spend more on your outfit, decorations, or another aspect of the wedding.
Opt to spend your budget primarily on things that benefit you both.
You can also spend on something like your honeymoon, which is for both of you.
You and your spouse may have different religious traditions and expectations regarding a wedding.
For example, if your partner is jewish and you are catholic, then you could have a rabbi and a priest officiate the wedding.
You may find that certain details mean a lot to you, but do not matter to your partner.
If flowers are very important to you, your partner may let you choose flowers.
In this case, both of you may have to compromise and settle for your second choice.
You both may want to get married in your hometown, for example.
It' s your spouse' s wedding to, and they' re entitled to make certain choices.
For example, maybe your partner is against getting married in your hometown and you don' t understand why.
While you would be willing to compromise on this, you do want an explanation.
For example, maybe your partner is slightly more introverted than you and you sometimes feel your social life is hampered by this.
Maybe one of you feels a bigger sense of obligation to your family.
Maybe you feel your family provides more financially than your partner' s family, and sometimes feel taken advantage of.
For example, maybe your partner wants his family in the wedding party, but you just want your family in the audience.
Would you be okay with your family playing less of a role in the wedding, or should the two of you change plans to accommodate everyone?
Talk this over with your partner.
