It’s not your job to try to figure out why he’s not calling, or to try to fix the situation.; ,  if you constantly have to reassure yourself that he’ll come around eventually if you just wait a little bit longer, you are likely in a one-sided relationship.
After all, you deserve someone who can’t wait to spend more time with you, not someone who you have to convince to call you.
He is not reciprocating your interest, and you deserve the type of relationship that doesn’t make you question your place in his life.if he calls you or wants to see you on the weekend, but drops off the face of the earth during the week, there is something going on.
Just accept the truth that you read his interest wrong and that you got hurt in the process.
Think positively about yourself, and remember all of your good qualities, and all of the activities that you enjoy.
Think of a brief positive phrase that you can say to yourself when you are feeling down and need reassurance that it' s all going to be okay.
The way you deal with your loss will help you grow stronger as a person.
Your value and worth as a person have nothing to do with his perception of you.
Remember that his lack of interest in a relationship with you does not mean that you are not worthy of a great relationship with the right person.
Unless he is a sociopath, he is likely not trying to hurt you.
Have you ever had the experience of having to let someone down easy who you are not that interested in?
The expectation that today will be the day that he asks you out, wants to get back together, or finally realizes that you are the girl of his dreams only serves to keep you in the painful cycle of getting your hopes up and then disappointing you over and over.
Don’t allow yourself to pin your happiness on whether or not he reaches out to you.
When you think that you have met “the one”, that fate has brought you together, or that the two of you are meant to be, it can be difficult to let go of the hope that he will eventually see that you are the perfect girl for him.
Remember that you are just a human being.
Talk to your friends and family, and let them comfort you.
Make sure that you delete his voicemails and texts too, so that you can’t go back and re-read or listen to them.
I don' t need a guy to be happy." ,  you are perfect just the way you are; you are the most important person in your life.
