You get bonus points if you do this when your sister doesn' t even know you' re home.; ,  this works best if your sister thinks you' re sleeping or out at a friend' s house.
Then, wait for a time when she thinks she' s alone in the house or just in her room, and sneak your hand into the room and turn off all the lights in the room she' s in.
If your sister knows you' re home, then you can grab a book and pretend to be absorbed in it in the other room if she runs in screaming.
Wait until you can feel your sister coming up close to you, or even moving in toward your face.
She' ll beg and plead and you' ll eventually pretend to give in.
If you tend to sleep in late and your sister is in charge of waking you up sometimes, then this is the perfect prank for you.
When your sister calls your name a few times to wake you up, wait for her to get close, when she' s sure you' re really dozing, to spring out at her in your mask.
If you really want to go all out, then you can tap on your sister' s window in the night.
Though climbing on your roof isn' t usually a great idea, if you' re sure you can do it super safely, then you can tap on your sister' s window in the middle of the night to really freak her out.
You can have her find you in bed with fake blood all over your face.
You can cover yourself in fake blood and have her find you face-down at the kitchen table.
When your sister opens the door and stares at the box for a second, you should jump out and scream, making her shriek.
The first thing you do is to hide in your closet.
Then, you should call your sister, pretending that you' re not home.
Tell her that you really need her help and that you want her to go into the closet to get something for you.
When she opens the closet door, you can jump out at her.
You can also try this trick on the background of her phone, if you can get it away from her.
You can even take a quick photo as you jump out to capture her expression.
Bonus points if you can get your hand to be cold and clammy when you do this.
It won' t take long for her to notice your scary reflection in the mirror and to scream her heart out!
